# CDoc - CoffeeScript documentation extractor

CDoc is a simple NodeJS script that extracts comments from CoffeeScript files
in the source directory tree, and creates an identical directory tree in the
target directory that contains markdown comments found in source files.

Other than extracting markdown comments, CDoc doesn't do anything. It does not
compile HTML, has no templates or CSS. In other words, CDoc is not a
documetnation generator.

## Installation

Install using npm:

    npm install cdoc

## Comment formatting rules

All comments must use markdown in order to be extractable. The lines to be
extracted must start with a single `#`. Any inline comments that start with a
single `#` will be included, so you should use `##` to start comments that you
do not want to be included (actually any non-space character after `#` will
do).

To include a table of contents in the output, add `::TOC::` string anywhere in
the source. The table of contents will be generated at that point. By default,
the table of contents will omit level 1 headings as well as level 5 and lower.
This is not configurable yet.

## Basic usage

To extract documentation located in `src` directory, and store extracted files
in `doc`:

    cdoc src doc

The `doc` directory will contain the same directory structure as `src` and all
`.coffee` files in the `src` directory will have a matching `.mkd` file in the
`doc` directory.

## Ignoring directories

To ignore directories, pass the `-i` or `--ignore` option:

    cdoc src doc -i test -i example

## Reporting bugs

Report all bugs to [GitHub issue
tracker](https://github.com/foxbunny/cdoc/issues).
