
# <a id="cdoc-coffeescript-livescript-documentation-extractor">CDoc - CoffeeScript/LiveScript documentation extractor</a>

CDoc is a simple NodeJS script that extracts comments from CoffeeScript or
LiveScript files in the source directory tree, and creates an identical
directory tree in the target directory that contains markdown comments found in
source files.

Other than extracting markdown comments, CDoc doesn't do anything. It does not
compile HTML, has no templates or CSS. In other words, CDoc is not a
documetnation generator.

 * [Dependencies](#dependencies)
 * [Internal functions](#internal-functions)
   * [`isComment(line)`](#iscomment-line)
   * [`lineType(line)`](#linetype-line)
   * [`extract(filename)`](#extract-filename)
   * [`processParagraph(o)`](#processparagraph-o)
   * [`processParagraphs(paragraphs)`](#processparagraphs-paragraphs)
   * [`tocIndent(level)`](#tocindent-level)
   * [`buildToc(paragraphs)`](#buildtoc-paragraphs)
   * [`processFile(filename)`](#processfile-filename)
   * [`log(msg)`](#log-msg)
   * [`isDir(path)`](#isdir-path)
   * [`isGlob(s)`](#isglob-s)
   * [`matchGlob(s, glob)`](#matchglob-s-glob)
   * [`isSkippable(filename, skipList)`](#isskippable-filename-skiplist)
   * [`processDir(dir, target, [skip])`](#processdir-dir-target-skip)



## <a id="dependencies">Dependencies</a>

CDoc depends on [DaHelpers](https://github.com/foxbunny/dahelpers) and
[node-optimist](https://github.com/substack/node-optimist).


## <a id="internal-functions">Internal functions</a>

This module implements the methods used for parsing and extracting the Markdown
sources from the source code. The command line interface is implemented in the
`bin/cli.js` script, which is what users run when they want to use CDoc from
command line.


### <a id="iscomment-line">`isComment(line)`</a>

Matches the unprocessed source file line against regexp and returns the match
if the line is a comment.


### <a id="linetype-line">`lineType(line)`</a>

Returns the type of the processed source file line. Output is a an array with
two members. The first memeber is either the unmodified input, a `null`, or a
newline character, depending on the type of line. The second member is the type
of the line.

 + `[null, 'source']`: source code
 + `['\n', 'empty']`: empty line
 + `[line, 'heading`']`: heading comment block
 + `[line, 'indented']`: indented comment block
 + `[line, 'normal']`: normal comment block


### <a id="extract-filename">`extract(filename)`</a>

Internal function.

The return value is an array of paragraphs. Each paragraph is rerpresented by
an object containing `type` and `content` keys. The `type` key can be one of
the following:

 + 'source'
 + 'empty'
 + 'heading'
 + 'indented'
 + 'normal'

The content is an array of lines as found in the source code without any
wrapping applied.


### <a id="processparagraph-o">`processParagraph(o)`</a>

Processes the single paragraph object.

All paragraphs of type \heading are decorated with an anchor so as to make them
accessible for bookmarking and table of contents.

All normal paragraphs (of type \normal) are wrapped at 79 characters.

All indented paragraphs are joined with newlines and otherwise left intact.


### <a id="processparagraphs-paragraphs">`processParagraphs(paragraphs)`</a>

Applies the `processParagraph()` function to all paragraph objects extracted by
the `extract()` function.


### <a id="tocindent-level">`tocIndent(level)`</a>

Returns the number of spaces required for TOC indentation for a given `level`.


### <a id="buildtoc-paragraphs">`buildToc(paragraphs)`</a>

Builds the table of contents from given paragraphs. Returns a string of
Markdown-formatted table of contents.


### <a id="processfile-filename">`processFile(filename)`</a>

Performs conversion of source code in `filename` to Markdown.


### <a id="log-msg">`log(msg)`</a>

Wrapper around `console.log()` which suppresses output if `VERBOSE` flag is
unset.


### <a id="isdir-path">`isDir(path)`</a>

Returns `true` if `path` is a directory.


### <a id="isglob-s">`isGlob(s)`</a>

Returns `true` if string `is` contains glob pattern characters ('\*' and '?').


### <a id="matchglob-s-glob">`matchGlob(s, glob)`</a>

Converts the glob pattern string `glob` to RegExp and returns a match against
the string `s`. Return value is the same as for `String.prototype.match()`.


### <a id="isskippable-filename-skiplist">`isSkippable(filename, skipList)`</a>

Returns true if `filename` matches at least one item in the `skipList` array.
The `skipList` items can either be exact filenames or glob patterns.


### <a id="processdir-dir-target-skip">`processDir(dir, target, [skip])`</a>

Recursively processes the `dir` directory and creates extracted Markdown files
in the `target` directory.

The `target` directory tree will be created to match the source directory tree.
The target filenames will be the same as source filenames except for the 'mkd'
extension.